# Gold-Price-Prediction-Uisng-Python
This project is aimed at predicting the price of gold using Machine Learning Models and Algorithms. R-Squared Error has been used as an evaluation metrics whose value is the range of 0.9892 - 0.9902.
# Project Overview
Gold is a yellow metallic element that occurs naturally in pure form and is used to make coins, jewellery, etc.  In the past gold was used as a form of currency in many countries including USA. In the present time, it is a very precious form of metal and the abundant quantity of gold is kept in reserve with the central banks of the respective countries which is used for re-payment of foreign debt, controlling the inflation and other related activities which reflects in financial strength of the country. In the recent times developing countries such as India, China and Russia have emerged out to be the largest buyers of gold in the international market. On the other hand, countries like USA, South Africa and Australia have emerged out to be the largest seller of gold. Thus, the demand and supply of gold in all types of market play an important role in deciding it’s price. However, apart from Demand and Supply there are many other factors as well that helps in deciding the price of gold such as prices of other precious metals, prices of crude oil, performance of the stock market, Bonds etc.

In this project, I have forecasted the gold rates using the most comprehensive set of features and used machine learning algorithms for forecasting the gold rates and compare the result. For this project I have used “Gold Price Data” that I downloaded from https://www.kaggle.com/altruistdelhite04/gold-price-data where the data ranges from 01-02-2008 to 05-16-2018. There is total 2290 rows and 6 columns. The names of the column is Date, SPX, GLD, USO, SLV, EUR/USD respectively. I have tried to predict the price of gold with respect to the corresponding rows in other columns. Here I have used Random Forest Regressor Machine learning model to predict the price of the gold.
